Okay.
NOTE CONF
That's fine too.
All right, that's the red light.
NOTE CONF
So we got a few things I want to get
through today.
NOTE CONF
There should be a few spaces for people coming in
late.
NOTE CONF
We're not too bad today.
All right, let's move on.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Pet of the LAX.
NOTE CONF
We got a cat today.
This is Theo.
NOTE CONF
I don't know anything about fear when you're sending me
pictures of your cats, maybe tell me a little bit
NOTE CONF
about them and what they're into or whatever, so I
can share that.
NOTE CONF
But this is a very nice picture of this cat.
I've got a lot of pictures of pets now stacked
NOTE CONF
up, so I'm just going to do one picture for
now because in case I get a ton more in.
NOTE CONF
But if I keep yeah, I don't want to run
out, but um, but I might, uh, might go to
NOTE CONF
a couple Alexa, if we keep getting more.
So keep them coming.
NOTE CONF
Uh, somebody was asking how to send them.
Just just send them to my email address.
NOTE CONF
She'll be able to find it on the course web
page.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Oh, right.
NOTE CONF
No.
So let's go back now to.
NOTE CONF
So we get slightly out of sync in the first
week or two because we have to cover all the
NOTE CONF
intro stuff.
So we've now got a little bit left over from
NOTE CONF
yesterday.
So first of all, I'm just going to put this
NOTE CONF
up for a second.
The Burns Night ceilidh.
NOTE CONF
There are still some I think there's about 20 tickets
left maybe.
NOTE CONF
So if you're interested, um, I think it's going to
be loads of fun.
NOTE CONF
It's on Friday.
I'm going to be there.
NOTE CONF
I think quite a few members of staff will be
there.
NOTE CONF
I will ask Julian if you can come, but I
can't make any promises.
NOTE CONF
Um, so do come along.
It's a lot of fun.
NOTE CONF
You get there's a lot of free food and drink.
Um, if you have got a ticket, please do come.
NOTE CONF
Or if you can't come, let us know, because.
Well, at the moment there are spare tickets, but we'll
NOTE CONF
probably be sold out.
So, um, we don't always tickets on people who've got
NOTE CONF
them.
Can't come.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
It's 7:00.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Oh, I don't even say on there.
NOTE CONF
It's 7 to 9.
That's a good point.
NOTE CONF
I should have put this on the slide 7 to
9 on.
NOTE CONF
Oh, I say Wednesday.
That is nonsense.
NOTE CONF
Wednesday, January 24th.
It's not Wednesday.
NOTE CONF
Okay, this is a terrible slide.
Sorry about this.
NOTE CONF
This is completely unhelpful.
Friday.
NOTE CONF
Oops.
It's Friday at seven till nine.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Right now let's do some Java.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I don't.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the questions are.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
It's in the Informatics forum.
NOTE CONF
If you follow the link.
It should have all the information should tell you everything.
NOTE CONF
It's in the forum.
7:00 on Friday.
NOTE CONF
You need to have a ticket.
If you turn up on the day, I doubt there's
NOTE CONF
going to be any spare tickets.
Okay, so any questions?
NOTE CONF
There's so much stuff in here.
I really can't sort through it.
NOTE CONF
I really don't.
If you've got some things to say, that's totally fine
NOTE CONF
for the word cloud.
I don't mind that it's unhelpful if you put them
NOTE CONF
in here, but you can see it's got this thing
where you can like other people's comments.
NOTE CONF
If people have put sensible comments that you want to
know the answer to, if you just like them, That'll
NOTE CONF
help.
Help me see what they are.
NOTE CONF
There is surely some way to sort this by how
much people.
NOTE CONF
How many hearts they've got.
But I don't know what that is.
NOTE CONF
But I'll try and figure it out.
So anyway, I don't think there was much in there
NOTE CONF
that hasn't been answered, but in general there might be
questions, so don't spam it because otherwise I can't answer
NOTE CONF
anything useful.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So now what we're going to do is we are
going to.
NOTE CONF
Oh sorry I'll put these in the right place.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So there's a couple of things to talk about actually.
Uh, well, you should have seen in the email a
NOTE CONF
couple of we're having so many hiccups.
So the tutorials should all be in your timetable starting
NOTE CONF
this week.
That's an error.
NOTE CONF
They do not start this week.
They start next week.
NOTE CONF
So just ignore it for this week.
But from next week that will be your timetable slot.
NOTE CONF
Apparently when you if you can't make a stop, please
go along to your sign slot.
NOTE CONF
Unless you really can't.
If you can't, I sent a link to change your
NOTE CONF
tutorial slot.
Apparently when you follow that link, you get a drop
NOTE CONF
down list of courses and info on B is not
in that.
NOTE CONF
Nobody seems to know why they're working on that, so
that should be fixable quite soon.
NOTE CONF
Also, I did have some complaints that there were no
demonstrators in the lab sessions.
NOTE CONF
I'm pretty sure there were.
I'm chasing them.
NOTE CONF
Just they've all been assigned.
They all know they've got to be there.
NOTE CONF
I'm chasing them just in case some of them weren't
there.
NOTE CONF
I think the problem is they're not making themselves visible.
I told them to put stickers on and to walk
NOTE CONF
around and to tell people who they are.
That's clearly not happening.
NOTE CONF
Sorry about that.
I will, um, I'll I'll talk to them again and
NOTE CONF
try and improve that.
But thanks for the feedback.
NOTE CONF
Please just let me know when these things happen and
we can try and fix it.
NOTE CONF
Um, assessments.
Um, so the weekly quiz is still open, but I'm
NOTE CONF
going to go through the results not of the quiz
questions, but of the survey questions.
NOTE CONF
And you will be getting your practice questions for the
first assignment pretty soon.
NOTE CONF
Watch out for announcements about that.
James and Adriana, who are doing the assignments, will get
NOTE CONF
in touch with you about that.
So let me just quickly show you The week one
NOTE CONF
results.
Okay, so this obviously is not the final results from
NOTE CONF
the survey because it's still open until Friday.
Not all of you have done that, but actually a
NOTE CONF
lot of you have done this.
So having a look at your background, um, actually 63%
NOTE CONF
of people have got higher or advanced higher or a
level or some kind of similar school leaving qualification.
NOTE CONF
In computing, this is higher than usual.
Normally it's only about 5050, but you can see a
NOTE CONF
lot of the class do.
But then for a lot of the class, about 35%
NOTE CONF
of the class don't have very much higher computing.
They've either done a little bit or they've done none
NOTE CONF
at all before last semester.
So you can see it's quite a mixed class there,
NOTE CONF
although less mix.
Unusual.
NOTE CONF
More than half of you have some experience of OOP,
but not 20% have done a lot.
NOTE CONF
Most of you have done just a little bit, or
some of you have never done any.
NOTE CONF
This is again, this is higher.
I'm surprised how many people have already done OOP.
NOTE CONF
So there's maybe a bit of repetition for those of
you who have done quite a bit of OOP, but
NOTE CONF
you just have to bear with us because this is
for the people who haven't.
NOTE CONF
And also the reminder is often really useful.
Okay, so most of you are feeling confident and looking
NOTE CONF
forward to the course, which makes me feel very happy.
Quite a few are a little bit worried about how
NOTE CONF
you will cope.
Very normal.
NOTE CONF
Please do.
Take advantage.
NOTE CONF
Go and talk to the demonstrators if you can find
them.
NOTE CONF
I'll make sure you can find them.
Talk to your tutor.
NOTE CONF
Come along to my office.
I'll say my office hours today at 4:00.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to be in 606 in Appleton Tower, where
you may be anyway.
NOTE CONF
Just come and say hi.
You don't need a question or whatever.
NOTE CONF
I brought some oat biscuits.
Um, just come say hi, introduce yourself or whatever.
NOTE CONF
I really like to meet people because it's really hard
in the big class to get to know anyone anyway,
NOTE CONF
but that's particularly useful if you're a little bit anxious
about it.
NOTE CONF
I'll be able to help you get all the support
you need.
NOTE CONF
Some of you, only 9% think it's going to be
too easy.
NOTE CONF
As you already know OP, which is good to see.
Hopefully all of you will have found some challenges and
NOTE CONF
some of you are quite worried about it again.
Come and talk to me.
NOTE CONF
Come and access the help that we have.
Um, most people think everything is pretty clear.
NOTE CONF
Um, a couple of things you're not sure about.
Hopefully Piazza is being helpful for that.
NOTE CONF
If you find that Piazza is not helpful.
Email me directly.
NOTE CONF
Okay, this is what you want to get.
So this is what you're aiming to get.
NOTE CONF
So these are most of you are aiming to get
a first.
NOTE CONF
So that is great.
It's good to see you being optimistic.
NOTE CONF
Quite a lot of you aiming for 100%.
I mean it's great to be optimistic.
NOTE CONF
Um, but you know you know about the common marking
scheme that we use in universities.
NOTE CONF
It's very different to in schools.
And it's not it's not written in the courses.
NOTE CONF
It should be more or less impossible to get 100%
because there's a lot asked of you.
NOTE CONF
So if you're aiming for 100%, don't.
The most important thing is that you don't like set
NOTE CONF
your heart 100% and just work and work and work
and work to try and get that.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to do that.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Aim higher.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Put the practice in.
But don't kill yourself to get this because it's not
NOTE CONF
set up for this to be expected.
Um, this.
NOTE CONF
Oh, no.
This is what you're aiming to get.
NOTE CONF
This is what you think.
You'll get a little bit lower, but still optimistic.
NOTE CONF
Um, nobody thinks they're going to fail, which is great.
Nobody should think they're going to fail and nobody will
NOTE CONF
fail.
If you put the time in, if you get the
NOTE CONF
support you that is available when you're confused.
We always have some people failing.
NOTE CONF
That's usually because they've sort of effectively dropped out because
of things going on in their life, or it's because
NOTE CONF
they get a little bit behind, they get a little
bit stressed and not understanding things.
NOTE CONF
And then instead of accessing the help, they just bury
their heads in the sand and think it's too embarrassing
NOTE CONF
to go along.
Now I'm three weeks out of date.
NOTE CONF
They're just going to think.
They're just going to laugh at me.
NOTE CONF
That is never the case.
We're always there to support you, however far behind you
NOTE CONF
are.
Come along and get support and we can and we
NOTE CONF
can help you.
Somebody thinks they're going to get 110%.
NOTE CONF
Frankly, that's not realistic.
But good to see.
NOTE CONF
People are ambitious.
All right okay.
NOTE CONF
So enough about that.
Let's do some actual Java.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we were looking at we were looking at f
NOTE CONF
loops.
So we were looking at basic control loops last time.
NOTE CONF
And we were looking at if loops.
What we're going to look at briefly now is nested
NOTE CONF
if loops.
So if there's lots of different variations.
NOTE CONF
So so far we've looked if something is true do
a if not do B.
NOTE CONF
Very simple situations, but obviously situations are often a lot
more complex than this.
NOTE CONF
So here's a nice picture of Scottish weather.
It was actually a little bit like this like a
NOTE CONF
couple of weeks ago.
Maybe now it's weirdly warm for the time of year.
NOTE CONF
But anyway, here is how you classify Scottish weather.
So if it's over ten, that's what we consider to
NOTE CONF
be super hot in Edinburgh.
1 to 10 is normal.
NOTE CONF
If it's below freezing it's maybe nippy, and if it's
below five degrees, you might even actually want to wear
NOTE CONF
a sweater.
So how are we going to code this?
NOTE CONF
So let's go back.
We're still in Hello world which doesn't make a lot
NOTE CONF
of sense, but that doesn't really matter for demonstration purposes.
So let me see what we're going to do here.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to have a variable called temp.
And we're going to initialise it as something.
NOTE CONF
Let's just put zero for now.
Um, and we're going to return a verdict of what
NOTE CONF
we should do, what kind of weather it is based
on that little thing we saw there.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to have a string called verdict.
We just declare that we're not going to set that
NOTE CONF
because we're going to be setting that during the programming.
We're just declaring its type.
NOTE CONF
So how did it go?
If the temperature is less than five, then verdict equals.
NOTE CONF
Wear a sweater.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Oops.
If the temperature is less than one then the verdict
NOTE CONF
is nippy.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
If temp is.
What was it?
NOTE CONF
Less than ten.
That is what we're going to say is normal.
NOTE CONF
And otherwise, if none of these things are true, we've
got our else here.
NOTE CONF
We're going to say else.
The verdict is Roasting.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And then once we've gone through these options, we will
NOTE CONF
have a signed verdict of value.
And we're going to print it out.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Now if you see verdict, they were all greyed out
NOTE CONF
and it was greyed out because verdict was never used.
If you look at this it says verdict is never
NOTE CONF
used.
But now we're actually doing something with verdict.
NOTE CONF
So these two have gone black.
These two are still grey but we'll see in a
NOTE CONF
minute why this is okay.
So here are all our options.
NOTE CONF
At the moment the temperature is zero.
So let's have a just have a look at that.
NOTE CONF
Think what is it going to do when the temperature
is zero.
NOTE CONF
So let's run through that.
So actually I'm going to put the temperature to let's
NOTE CONF
put it at minus six to begin with.
So we'd expect this to be a nice to be
NOTE CONF
minus five.
It should be.
NOTE CONF
It's going to be the lowest.
So it should be wear a sweater.
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
It's normal.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Actually, I kind of showed that the wrong way around.
NOTE CONF
Let's put it at 12, That none of these are
going to apply.
NOTE CONF
So it's going to print out roasting.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
That's what we think.
None of these none of these ifs apply.
NOTE CONF
It goes straight onto the else that's roasting.
If we go down to nine then we'd expect it
NOTE CONF
to be normal because, um, this becomes true.
So we're going to set verdict to normal because this
NOTE CONF
condition is met.
So if we then go down to wherever I was
NOTE CONF
before zero, we would what we wanted to say is
nippy, right?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Nippy between -1 and -5 is nippy, so that's what
NOTE CONF
we'd expect it to say.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
What it says is normal.
And I heard someone call out that that was what
NOTE CONF
it was going to say.
Um, obviously somebody who knows a little bit about coding
NOTE CONF
said, why is this saying normal and not nippy?
Because I've told it here.
NOTE CONF
If the temperature is less than one, we should put
nippy.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
What's going on here?
NOTE CONF
So this is because we have all of our different
ifs, but we don't have any else statements.
NOTE CONF
Right?
So it's going through this.
NOTE CONF
It's saying is temperature less than minus five.
No.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Jump over that.
NOTE CONF
Ignore that.
Is temperature less than one.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
So now I'm going to assign this value to verdict.
NOTE CONF
Then on to the next step.
Is the temperature less than ten.
NOTE CONF
Well yeah that is also true.
Zero is less than ten as well as less than
NOTE CONF
one.
So now verdict is nippy.
NOTE CONF
But because it means this condition is going to assign
a new value to it, it's going to write verdict
NOTE CONF
equals normally normal.
This is why these are greyed out because it's saying
NOTE CONF
it's never actually going to use these.
Because if any of these are true, this is also
NOTE CONF
going to be true.
So you're going to be overwriting what you've done.
NOTE CONF
And this is why we need else conditions.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Because once we've once we've found where we want to
be, we then don't want to go on to do
NOTE CONF
the things that don't apply in that situation.
So I'm going to say if temperature is less than
NOTE CONF
five were a sweater else.
So I'm going to put this in an else loop
NOTE CONF
here.
Else if temperature is.
NOTE CONF
Less than one the verdict is nippy.
And then I have another else in here.
NOTE CONF
Else if temperature is less than ten, verdict is normal.
And then we've got the final else here.
NOTE CONF
And that should.
Oh, I've got to close these brackets.
NOTE CONF
Hopefully this is going to work.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So now can you see it's nested.
And if I run that now if I haven't made
NOTE CONF
a stupid error it should work.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
And it's saying okay because I've nested that properly.
I've got my ifs and I've got my elses right.
NOTE CONF
So it's always it always knows which path to go
down.
NOTE CONF
There's no confusion about checking multiple conditions by the way.
Just as an aside, what would happen say, we talked
NOTE CONF
a little bit about the importance of curly braces in
these loops.
NOTE CONF
So what happens if I just remove these.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So now there's no curly braces around the first condition.
Let's put it down to minus six.
NOTE CONF
So that will be relevant.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So who thinks that's going to make a difference.
Do you think that's going to we are going to
NOTE CONF
have a different output.
No.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Some people do.
NOTE CONF
Who thinks it's going to be the same.
Probably more people think it's going to be the same.
NOTE CONF
So if we run it and see, we'd expect that
to say, wear a sweater and it's exactly the same,
NOTE CONF
it doesn't make a difference.
Why is that?
NOTE CONF
Is because there is only one line, right?
So if you don't use curly braces, Java will assume
NOTE CONF
the loop is just the first line.
In this case, it genuinely is just the first line.
NOTE CONF
So you don't need the braces from a from Java's
point of view.
NOTE CONF
You do need them.
From a readability point of view, though, it's not going
NOTE CONF
to fail if you don't do it, but it's way
more readable if you do, so just always put those
NOTE CONF
in.
Okay, so that's everything that I wanted to do from
NOTE CONF
the from the last lecture.
So now we're going to move on.
NOTE CONF
I just got my water up.
Sorry about that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we are going to look at arrays.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So arrays are something that you should.
NOTE CONF
Oh sorry.
I'm just looking through these beforehand.
NOTE CONF
So let me go up.
Um, so you should be kind of familiar with arrays
NOTE CONF
from math.
But arrays are a very fundamental part of most programming
NOTE CONF
languages.
There's something you're going to use all the time in
NOTE CONF
Java, and you would use all the time in a
lot of different languages.
NOTE CONF
So arrays are essentially a way of keeping things together,
right?
NOTE CONF
Lots of things that you want to consider.
At the same time, you keep them all together.
NOTE CONF
So it's a yeah, it's a way of storing different
kinds of data.
NOTE CONF
So importantly in Java, in an array, every every item
of an array has to be the same type of
NOTE CONF
thing.
You can't have an array with one element that's a
NOTE CONF
double and one that's an integer and one that's a
string.
NOTE CONF
Everything has got to be the same.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So here we're looking at initialising.
An array that is is an array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
And it's got.
So here we've got these ten numbers A0 to A9.
NOTE CONF
And we want them all to be we want them
all to start off as 0.0.
NOTE CONF
They're doubles.
0.0 is the default value of a double, and we
NOTE CONF
may then want to do other things, like here.
We're now assigning a new value to A4.
NOTE CONF
We might want to do addition with some elements of
the array.
NOTE CONF
We want to do things with bits of the array,
but we want to keep these things together okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so we initialise these.
Uh, okay.
NOTE CONF
Let me just go straight.
Let's go straight to IntelliJ and have a look at
NOTE CONF
it here how we do this.
So we're going to bring up arrays.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So I'm going to I'm going to make an array
NOTE CONF
of doubles right.
I'm going to call it array.
NOTE CONF
And it's already read because I haven't told it what
type it is yet.
NOTE CONF
As you know Java really wants me to tell everything
once.
NOTE CONF
Always be very clear about types.
Um, so I'm going to use the keyword new here.
NOTE CONF
And this is something that you'll get very familiar with.
What does new mean?
NOTE CONF
New means I'm creating something that doesn't exist before, and
I need a space in memory for it.
NOTE CONF
So new is essentially finding a space in memory so
that when I create this new thing, there's somewhere for
NOTE CONF
it to live.
Now, so far we've only looked at doing things with
NOTE CONF
literals.
You don't need to do this with literals, but if
NOTE CONF
you're creating a new object, which is essentially what an
array is you use, you need the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
Okay, now I need to indicate what I need to
indicate that it's an array, which I do with square
NOTE CONF
brackets.
And I have to say what kind of thing is
NOTE CONF
going to be in the array.
And I'm going to do an array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
So this is how I declare that double the word
double or the word whatever the type is with the
NOTE CONF
square brackets.
Now also when I'm creating this space in memory, I
NOTE CONF
need to say how much space do I need.
So I need to say how big is the array
NOTE CONF
going to be?
So when you're creating arrays, you already know when you
NOTE CONF
when you create them, you need to know how many
elements they're going to have.
NOTE CONF
You can't do this on the fly.
You have to declare this.
NOTE CONF
And you do.
You do it by putting the number in here.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to say this is an array with
ten elements.
NOTE CONF
It could be anything but I want to create an
array with ten elements.
NOTE CONF
Now I need to tell it what type it is
and the type of this thing.
NOTE CONF
A new thing I've created called array is a double
array.
NOTE CONF
So you may think this looks kind of redundant.
I've literally just told it that this is an array
NOTE CONF
of doubles.
And then Java is like, oh yeah, but I don't
NOTE CONF
know what the type is.
So I have to say it's an array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
So you have this same thing on both sides of
the of the declaration, which maybe seems a little redundant,
NOTE CONF
but this is what you have to do in Java.
You have to be really explicit.
NOTE CONF
Here I don't need to put how big it is,
because the purpose of this is not to create anything.
NOTE CONF
It's just to say the type and the type is
an array of doubles.
NOTE CONF
So here I have to put the size.
But on the left hand side very bad left and
NOTE CONF
right.
I'm just saying what the type is.
NOTE CONF
Okay, now I can do stuff with it.
Let's try system to print out an element.
NOTE CONF
So let's print out a.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
So what this means here is I'm saying here's an
array.
NOTE CONF
And what I want you to do, Java, is to
find whatever is in position two, and then it's going
NOTE CONF
to print it.
So let's see what happens when I do that okay.
NOTE CONF
And it's going to print 0.0 right.
So first this might seem a little strange.
NOTE CONF
I've just created this new array but I haven't set.
And I've said there's ten elements in it and they're
NOTE CONF
all of type double.
But I haven't said anything about what value these things
NOTE CONF
have.
And yet it is printing out a value.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is normal.
NOTE CONF
This is because you have these default values in Java.
So if I don't assign anything a value it will
NOTE CONF
use a default values.
Um okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is exactly what I've been showing.
And then I can do all sorts of things here.
NOTE CONF
Like I can assign new values so I can say
uh array two equals uh let's say 2.5.
NOTE CONF
And now you can see I've changed this value to
2.5.
NOTE CONF
And now I'm printing it out and you can see
that it's got its new value.
NOTE CONF
And I can do things like adding things I could
do, um, int uh, no, let's make that a double.
NOTE CONF
That would make more sense in sum equals um array
two plus array three.
NOTE CONF
And that I would expect to.
What's the value of this going to be.
NOTE CONF
2.5 yeah okay.
So I can manipulate things in arrays in this way.
NOTE CONF
And we all get really practice at doing that.
Um so what kinds of things would you want to
NOTE CONF
put in arrays.
Basically anything.
NOTE CONF
All kinds of stuff.
So we'll look in a minute about using an example,
NOTE CONF
using playing cards in a deck.
But you could keep all the undergraduate students at UAE.
NOTE CONF
That would be um, well that might be an array
of strings if you're using their names, or you might
NOTE CONF
have.
Identifier like integer identifiers or whatever.
NOTE CONF
All the characters in a book are just all kinds
of things that you want to keep together.
NOTE CONF
These are really, really common.
Now, one thing that's really important about array is that
NOTE CONF
they're index.
So you've already seen that when I say whatever is
NOTE CONF
at position two it that has a meaning.
Something is at position two in an array.
NOTE CONF
Because arrays are ordered and a little bit counterintuitive to
begin with.
NOTE CONF
But something you'll get super used to is that indexes
always start at zero.
NOTE CONF
So the the first element in an array is not
in position one, it's in position zero.
NOTE CONF
The thing in position one is the second in the
array.
NOTE CONF
So here Rebecca is the first value in this array
at position zero Isla is the second.
NOTE CONF
That's at position one.
So.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of silly errors that come in because
people forget that.
NOTE CONF
But you will get pretty used to that.
So this array is of is length five.
NOTE CONF
There's five different slots, so when I create this, I
say it's an array of length five.
NOTE CONF
And in memory there will be five different slots created.
The final index index of an array is always one
NOTE CONF
less than the length, because the first one is zero.
So what's happening in memory?
NOTE CONF
So if we have primitives, they all have a different
space in memory.
NOTE CONF
So they're all pointing to a different bit of memory.
But with an array you just have one position in
NOTE CONF
memory for the whole array.
And then within that there's different slots in the memory
NOTE CONF
for each element of the array.
So you're just pointing to this, this one entry in
NOTE CONF
the memory.
And all of the stuff is saved there.
NOTE CONF
Don't worry too much about what memory means.
If that's really unfamiliar and strange, we will be getting
NOTE CONF
on to memory in a bit and we'll look at
this in a lot more detail.
NOTE CONF
So arrays are kind of objects.
They're kind of they're special kinds of objects.
NOTE CONF
We haven't really spoken very much about objects at all,
let alone what it means to be a special kind
NOTE CONF
of object.
This is something that we will get onto later and
NOTE CONF
we'll be talking a lot about in this course.
Um, and so we looked at all of this and
NOTE CONF
we declared it.
This is how you declare it?
NOTE CONF
Um, and.
Oh, yes.
NOTE CONF
Let's do.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, so this is a for loop going through initialising
things, um, that we will.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
We'll come across this later.
NOTE CONF
So this is if you want to go through and
give a different value to everything, you can do that
NOTE CONF
rather than having the actual default value.
Um, yep.
NOTE CONF
We've already seen that.
And here are the default values.
NOTE CONF
If it's an integer default value of zero double is
0.0.
NOTE CONF
Boolean is false.
String is null.
NOTE CONF
So if you haven't told it the value of any
of these things, that is what it's going to default
NOTE CONF
to.
And as we said before, everything in array has to
NOTE CONF
have the same type.
Uh all right.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look at a different sort of array.
So I'm going to make an array of strings and
NOTE CONF
it's going to be of I'm going to call it
buildings, and it's going to be different buildings that I
NOTE CONF
might be going to.
So I'm going to say, oh, sorry, I haven't shown
NOTE CONF
you this shorthand yet.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So here's a shorthand for making arrays.
So what we saw before with the square brackets that
NOTE CONF
will create an array of things that have just a
default value.
NOTE CONF
Um, so if I want an array so there's going
to be four elements in an array.
NOTE CONF
So I can do it like this.
Uh sorry.
NOTE CONF
New uh string.
Four.
NOTE CONF
So I can do it like this.
This has created what I want, but nothing has any
NOTE CONF
value.
So I can go through one by one, giving it
NOTE CONF
values, missing a bracket somehow.
Um, but there's another way to do it.
NOTE CONF
If I already know every element and it's maybe not
too long a list, so this is quite easy to
NOTE CONF
do.
There's a shorthand way of doing this where we use
NOTE CONF
curly braces.
So normally everything in an array is always square braces.
NOTE CONF
But if you want to do this initialisation trick, use
curly braces and you just list everything that's going into
NOTE CONF
your array.
So I'm going to instead of doing this, I'm going
NOTE CONF
to say, here are my curly braces.
And get rid of that.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to just list everything in this init.
So the first thing is going to be my house.
NOTE CONF
And then and then we separate things in the array
with commas.
NOTE CONF
Let's have the Informatics Forum and Appleton Tower.
And what's another building in Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
What's that.
Castle okay Edinburgh Castle.
NOTE CONF
Fine.
That'll do for now.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let's first of all here's.
NOTE CONF
So let's just run that check.
It's happy with that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So it's created this thing I can't see it because
NOTE CONF
I'm not doing anything with it.
But now I know that I've changed the memory.
NOTE CONF
I've created a bit of memory in here.
Um.
NOTE CONF
And this is what's in it now.
I haven't used the keyword new, which is very rare.
NOTE CONF
When you're creating something new in memory, you almost always
use new.
NOTE CONF
But with this special shortcut, you don't have to do
that.
NOTE CONF
So if we print it out, what's it going to
look like?
NOTE CONF
Uh, buildings.
Okay, so this is the name of array.
NOTE CONF
Uh, no it isn't.
This is the name of the array.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to print this out.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And this is what it's going to return.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Which is not what I might want it to return.
So it's kind of annoying.
NOTE CONF
In Java, you can't just print arrays out.
You have to go through and print out the elements
NOTE CONF
of this.
So this is essentially a kind of reference to it
NOTE CONF
in memory.
It's not telling me what the contents of that is,
NOTE CONF
which is probably when I print out an array what
I actually want to do.
NOTE CONF
So um, okay.
But what I can do is I can get it
NOTE CONF
to print out, Um, what is in each slot.
So okay, I'm going to do print out.
NOTE CONF
This is telling me this this I'm saying print out
what is ever whatever is an index one of building.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to go back to woo Clap.
And I'm going to open this question I'm going to
NOTE CONF
hide the results okay.
So this is what this is what I've asked it.
NOTE CONF
So have a look at that question on woohoo.
Clap and vote.
NOTE CONF
What you think the answer is going to be.
Okay, let's have a look.
NOTE CONF
49 people okay.
Lots of people voted so the results are okay.
NOTE CONF
Most people have said the Informatics forum okay so let's
run it see what we get.
NOTE CONF
It is the Informatics forum right.
So the second most popular vote was uh, Appleton Tower.
NOTE CONF
That is because.
Oh, actually, I have no idea why anybody who gets
NOTE CONF
up to the tower.
So the naive thing, you might guess is my house,
NOTE CONF
because that's the first thing in the list.
But as I've just been saying, I'm glad to see
NOTE CONF
that everyone's been listening to me.
That's really nice, because you all knew that my house
NOTE CONF
is not at index one, it's at index zero.
So Informatics Forum is what's at index one.
NOTE CONF
That's great.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I can also get it to tell me the
length.
NOTE CONF
Now this is something we haven't seen before using built
in methods.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So when you apply methods to an object you use
NOTE CONF
a dot.
So here I'm going to put buildings dot length okay.
NOTE CONF
So length is a built in method.
And I'm applying it to an object called buildings using
NOTE CONF
this dot.
So what this is saying is whatever length, whatever length
NOTE CONF
is do it to buildings.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And what length is, is something that tells you the
length of an array.
NOTE CONF
So it's something that's built in for arrays.
So if I run this, it's going to tell me
NOTE CONF
that the length of buildings is four.
That means it's got four elements in it.
NOTE CONF
Um, other things I can do.
So I can say right.
NOTE CONF
What is that?
So it's for long.
NOTE CONF
I want to know what is at the in in
index for.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look.
So I can do this.
NOTE CONF
So.
So the what I want to do here is I
NOTE CONF
want to make this, this number that is returning.
I want that to be the index I'm looking at.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm going to ask what's in that position.
So.
NOTE CONF
So what this is mean I'm not giving it an
explicit number here to, to tell me what is at
NOTE CONF
the index.
I'm getting it to work out a number and then
NOTE CONF
return what's at the index.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So it doesn't really like this.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So it's got this yellow.
So which yellow as you know means I will run
NOTE CONF
it.
But it's not very good coding.
NOTE CONF
So let's see what's going on here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I now get an array index out of bounds
exception.
NOTE CONF
And it's telling me the yellow is telling me array
index is out of bounds.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Now we should know why that is.
NOTE CONF
Because the building the list of is of length four.
What's the index for?
NOTE CONF
Nothing.
Because the highest index is three.
NOTE CONF
It goes from 0 to 3.
So the highest index in any array is always length
NOTE CONF
minus one.
So if we put this.
NOTE CONF
So if we put a minus one in here, what
this is saying now is give me whatever is the
NOTE CONF
last element of this array.
And that is something you might quite often do when
NOTE CONF
you're coding what is last in this array.
If I do that it's going to tell me Edinburgh
NOTE CONF
Castle that is in the final index.
So this array index out of bounds is something that
NOTE CONF
happens quite often when you're coding because you've somehow messed
up how long it is or whatever.
NOTE CONF
What's the next question?
Oh yeah.
NOTE CONF
I haven't done go down to that yet.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right.
That's what I wanted to show you that now.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And that's all what we were just looking at.
NOTE CONF
And here's some more examples so you can have a
look through this.
NOTE CONF
Just if you want different examples of the same thing
we've been looking at.
NOTE CONF
But I'm not going to go through those all now.
So we've got this Is a dot product.
NOTE CONF
So maybe you remember doing dot products in maths.
Um, so essentially what we're doing here.
NOTE CONF
A dot product is the sum of the products of
their corresponding components.
NOTE CONF
So you multiply them together and then you add those
all those multiplications together.
NOTE CONF
So what we're doing here we're setting up these two
arrays.
NOTE CONF
And we're using this shorthand here with the curly braces.
Um so x is has got three values y has
NOTE CONF
got three values.
Now we're trying to find out what the ultimate sum
NOTE CONF
is.
So we start off with an initial value for some
NOTE CONF
which is some is a double.
So it's going to be 0.0.
NOTE CONF
And then we go through um go through these this
array.
NOTE CONF
And every time we are multiplying whatever is in ith
position of x with the ith position of y.
NOTE CONF
That's probably familiar with you, if you can remember dot
products, if you can't have a look at it, if
NOTE CONF
you want to figure out what's going on.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to have a little question about that
a little bit later on.
NOTE CONF
So we're creating an array with random values.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So sorry.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So here you can see this is another thing we
haven't we haven't done yet built in packages.
NOTE CONF
So obviously there's tons of things that people do all
the time.
NOTE CONF
You don't want to build it in yourself all the
time.
NOTE CONF
So here's a package called maths packages.
Start with uppercase.
NOTE CONF
And this is just a whole package of different maths
things you want to do.
NOTE CONF
And one of the methods in there is called random.
What random does is it just finds a random value.
NOTE CONF
So what this is saying is create something completely random
and assign that to A1.
NOTE CONF
So now we're creating an array and we don't know
what the values are but they're not 0.0.
NOTE CONF
We're creating random stuff for those values to be um,
uh let's do the printing.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's do printing.
So we tried printing this out, right.
NOTE CONF
Just using buildings.
And we saw that that didn't work because you can't
NOTE CONF
do that with arrays.
So what you have to do with the rays is
NOTE CONF
you have to go through one by one and print
them all out yourself.
NOTE CONF
So we can do this with a for loop.
I get rid of that for now.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So for everything in the array we're going to print
NOTE CONF
it out.
So.
NOTE CONF
So if you remember for loops from the last lecture
we have the three things in the header.
NOTE CONF
First of all we have the counter which we're going
to initialise to zero.
NOTE CONF
So in t equals zero.
And then how long are we going to go through
NOTE CONF
it.
How many times are we going to do this.
NOTE CONF
We're going to do this for every element of the
array.
NOTE CONF
So we can have at whilst as long as I
is less than building buildings dot length.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Because as we've just seen, when we get to buildings
NOTE CONF
length then we're outside the array.
So as long as it's less than that we'll keep
NOTE CONF
going.
You also could have I is less than or equal
NOTE CONF
to buildings length minus one, which is saying go to
the end and then stop.
NOTE CONF
This is saying stop before you get past the end
as effectively the same thing.
NOTE CONF
It's slightly more concise this way.
And then we're iterating each time.
NOTE CONF
What I++.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And then every time we're just going to print out
whatever is in the ith position in the array.
NOTE CONF
Buildings ie.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So if we do this it should print out everything
for us.
NOTE CONF
So here this is all the elements of the array.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now this is not what I'm going to show you
now is not particularly apropos to arrays, but it's something
NOTE CONF
a little coding hack that you need to know.
And I think it's as good a time as any
NOTE CONF
to do it, because as you can see, we've got
this little yellow thing here.
NOTE CONF
It's saying it's not completely happy about this for loop.
It's not wrong, but it's not very neat programming.
NOTE CONF
So what it's saying here is for loop can be
replaced with enhanced for.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So for loops are pretty repetitive.
NOTE CONF
Right.
We always have we start with an iterator.
NOTE CONF
We go on until we've got a condition met and
then we iterate by one.
NOTE CONF
And what we're essentially mostly doing or very often doing
in a for loop is just going through a list
NOTE CONF
of things and doing the same thing to each of
them.
NOTE CONF
So for everything in the list, we do something.
And um, because this is really common, there's shorthand for
NOTE CONF
it which is called enhanced for loop.
So one of the nice things about using an IDE
NOTE CONF
like IntelliJ is that it does a lot of this
stuff for you, so I don't actually have to replace
NOTE CONF
it.
I can just choose here.
NOTE CONF
Is suggesting do you want to replace this with an
enhanced for loop.
NOTE CONF
So fine I'll do that.
And now it's changed that for me.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is the anatomy of an enhanced for loop.
NOTE CONF
So we just have this one thing in the header.
So this is what we're this is what we're going
NOTE CONF
through.
This is this is our array.
NOTE CONF
We're going to step through the array and we're going
to.
NOTE CONF
So the colon should be read as in.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what this is saying for everything called building that
is in this array.
NOTE CONF
Buildings do something.
What we're going to do here is print it out.
NOTE CONF
You might think it could be, um, this is very
common way of doing it, but we could just put
NOTE CONF
a, um.
We could just put X or whatever, you know, whatever
NOTE CONF
we want.
So for every thing in buildings, do something for it.
NOTE CONF
If we look at that, it's going to be exactly
the same.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So enhance for loops.
NOTE CONF
You can get IntelliJ to write them.
You can write them yourselves.
NOTE CONF
The colon means for for everything sorry.
It means n for everything in this array.
NOTE CONF
Do this.
So basically most of the time we're using for loops.
NOTE CONF
You kind of want to do the enhance for the
only other.
NOTE CONF
The only situation when you don't want to do this
is if you're actually using the iterator to do something.
NOTE CONF
So when we looked at, um, did we do it
when we were doing here when we looked at.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So when we looked at this dot product we're actually
NOTE CONF
using this iterator.
We want to know what's in the ith position.
NOTE CONF
Uh and we're multiplying.
Actually we could do that.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we'll have a we'll have a look at examples
when you can and can't use for loops.
NOTE CONF
If you if you need to know the iterator, if
you're doing something with the iterator, um then you Then
NOTE CONF
you need to use a traditional for loop, but usually
use enhance for loops.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so we've done the printing.
We've done random values.
NOTE CONF
Um we can look at maximum values of the array.
Um and here so this is a little for loop
NOTE CONF
that's been written.
And again this could be an enhanced for loop.
NOTE CONF
Um and it's saying we want to find the maximum
value.
NOTE CONF
So let's go through everything in the array.
We'll start off with the maximum value being the first
NOTE CONF
element.
Um and then we check everything else.
NOTE CONF
If it's higher than the one we've already got, we'll
replace it.
NOTE CONF
And if not, we'll just ignore it and keep going
until we have finished.
NOTE CONF
And that will give us the maximum.
So this is lots of different things you might want
NOTE CONF
to do with arrays.
Copying one array to another.
NOTE CONF
So I don't want to go through all these examples
in a huge amount of detail.
NOTE CONF
Um, but this is useful if you want to look
through and see if you can figure out what they're
NOTE CONF
doing.
So this is this is essentially going to copy.
NOTE CONF
It's going to create a new array B.
And it's going to copy A to it.
NOTE CONF
Uh all right, so let's do the fill in the
blanks, okay.
NOTE CONF
So if you go to woo clap.
Now, uh, this is the question.
NOTE CONF
Here are some things that might go in the blanks.
So I'm going to give you a minute or so.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
So what's going in blank one for a start.
NOTE CONF
So the header of the for loop.
Which of those options is that going to be.
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'll leave it a little bit longer.
Not that many people have answered yet.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's see what people are saying.
NOTE CONF
So most people have got is that the right answer?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's the right answer.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so number one is the second most popular answer.
So in t equals one is correct.
NOTE CONF
But you've got I's less than length minus one.
If that was I's less than or equal to length
NOTE CONF
minus one that'd be great.
You keep on until it's equal to the final index.
NOTE CONF
But if you say it's less than so length minus
one is the final index.
NOTE CONF
You're stopping when it's less than.
So you're not going to get to the final index.
NOTE CONF
You're going to miss out the last one.
And you're iterating correctly.
NOTE CONF
Here there's commas instead of semicolons.
By the way I do this all the time in
NOTE CONF
four loops.
I don't know why I always make this mistake.
NOTE CONF
I'm just you probably see it when I'm doing live
coding.
NOTE CONF
I always put commas in and I'm like, why isn't
it running?
NOTE CONF
I don't know why I do that, because you always
use colons.
NOTE CONF
Must be colons also I've just got i++ here.
Should be i++.
NOTE CONF
What's wrong with this one?
Oh this is, this is actually does have the same
NOTE CONF
problem as up here with the less than length minus
one.
NOTE CONF
But also I'm not instantiating the I.
It's not going to know what the I is.
NOTE CONF
And here this is correct.
So we're properly instantiating AI.
NOTE CONF
We're going until AI is less in length and then
we're iterating.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And what are we going to want to put in
NOTE CONF
here.
So we're working out the dot product which means that
NOTE CONF
we want to um multiply whatever's in position AI together
and then add and then add it to the sum.
NOTE CONF
So what of that code is going to do that?
Let me just.
NOTE CONF
Is that.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
I just did.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I just gave the answer there.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, sorry about that.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Nobody voted.
Oh, hello.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I somehow screwed that up.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what we're doing here is.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
I've now got really confused about what I'm doing.
NOTE CONF
Is that for the wrong thing?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, let's just talk through it.
Let's just ignore that.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
I don't know what happened there.
NOTE CONF
So what we're doing here is we are multiplying whatever's
in the i'th position in A with B, we're adding
NOTE CONF
it to whatever we've got in the sum.
And then we're allocating that new value to sum.
NOTE CONF
So sum is now changing.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we've got average values.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what we have here hopefully this is going to
work.
NOTE CONF
What I just said.
Oh okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is what we're supposed to be doing now.
But I can't vote anymore.
NOTE CONF
Why can't I vote?
Oh, God.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
So.
NOTE CONF
Um.
How did I turn that off?
NOTE CONF
I don't know.
Anyway, let's just forget about that.
NOTE CONF
So what I wanted you to do here is to
look at all the different commands and to order them
NOTE CONF
in the right way.
And I especially put in that new slide because I
NOTE CONF
screwed that up last year.
And it should have worked, but I didn't.
NOTE CONF
It didn't work anyway.
So what we have to do here, first of all,
NOTE CONF
we have to declare what some is.
So we've got some we're going to use some.
NOTE CONF
So we've got to declare what it is.
And then here we've got what we're doing here is
NOTE CONF
okay, so this is shorthand.
Have we seen this shorthand before.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is a nice way of just saying instead
of saying sum equals sum plus something, you just say
NOTE CONF
sum plus equals.
And that just means by adding something new to sum
NOTE CONF
and reassigning it.
And then you're going to print out, um, so we're
NOTE CONF
doing the average value of an array of doubles.
So we're getting the sum and then we're dividing it
NOTE CONF
by the length okay.
If that's not clear have a look through it.
NOTE CONF
If it's still not clear then go along to the
lab okay.
NOTE CONF
So do we have time to do this.
The um so this here we're going to look at,
NOTE CONF
uh, slightly more complex different arrays where we are trying
to represent a pack of cards.
NOTE CONF
Um, let me just see if we can start doing
that.
NOTE CONF
Um.
What is a deck of cards?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so I think.
Oh, cards.
NOTE CONF
Oh, okay.
Uh, right.
NOTE CONF
Sorry about this.
Um, I forgot to get this figured.
NOTE CONF
It's using the wrong version.
Oh, no, don't do that.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so maybe we should just leave this.
Uh, okay.
NOTE CONF
Hang on.
I've got to just change the.
NOTE CONF
Version of Java.
For some reason, it keeps trying to open it with
NOTE CONF
an old version of Java.
Okay, now this should work.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
So we don't have time to look at this in
NOTE CONF
very much detail just now.
Um, but, um, okay, so what this is doing, right?
NOTE CONF
Oh, actually, also, in fact, I'm just going to leave
that because it's got things in that I want to
NOTE CONF
introduce slowly.
I'm really sorry.
NOTE CONF
Um, I wasn't actually expecting to get onto that one,
so I haven't prepared it.
NOTE CONF
But let's go on to the to the questions and
see if we can get any sensible questions.
NOTE CONF
No questions at all.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Nobody's got any questions.
Favourite biscuits?
NOTE CONF
My favourite biscuits.
I love rich tea biscuits.
NOTE CONF
I'm really like low key in my biscuit things.
And also, um.
NOTE CONF
Also I like biscotti.
They're really good.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Isn't nesting ifs a bad.
NOTE CONF
Isn't it?
Oh, God.
NOTE CONF
What is it?
Is it a bad practice?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We're going to look at alternatives to that.
NOTE CONF
So as you can see, even with the four options
it does begin to get a little bit cluttered, right.
NOTE CONF
So sometimes it's um if you're in a complex situation
there are other ways to do it.
NOTE CONF
And we're going to look at it differently.
Look at that later on.
NOTE CONF
Why do arrays start from zero?
I don't know a lot of things in coding start
NOTE CONF
from zero.
I've never really understood it, but that's how it works.
NOTE CONF
Could you have used a break instead of nested.
Else?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
You could have used a break.
NOTE CONF
Um, usually you need to be a bit careful about
using breaks because it takes it right out of the
NOTE CONF
coding.
But yeah, that could have worked.
NOTE CONF
Which is more efficient?
Okay, wait, this is a list.
NOTE CONF
It might not jump around a bit.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Please can you explain how the enhanced for loops work?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
We will get on to that.
We'll be looking at that a lot.
NOTE CONF
Is this okay?
Double n array.
NOTE CONF
No, that's not okay.
You cannot.
NOTE CONF
You cannot initialise it like this.
You have to use the keyword new unless you're using
NOTE CONF
the curly braces shorthand.
You have to use the the the the the keyword
NOTE CONF
new.
And you have to do the declaration in one side
NOTE CONF
and then the type on the other.
So you can't do that.
NOTE CONF
Her scheduling clashes put something onto Piazza.
I do want to see your cats.
NOTE CONF
Definitely send them to me.
Should we use an enhanced for loop over array dot
NOTE CONF
for each?
I not, I would say yes, but I'm not completely
NOTE CONF
sure what you mean by that.
Other than weekly quiz and lab exercises, what do I
NOTE CONF
have to do this week?
Nothing.
NOTE CONF
Just finish the weekly quiz.
Week two weekly quiz will be released today.
NOTE CONF
You've got a week and a half to do that.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to go through these.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Anything useful?
I will extract and get an answer to you for.
NOTE CONF
Sorry that that was a little bit chaotic at the
end.
NOTE CONF
Not quite sure what I had with that, but thanks
for coming.
NOTE CONF
See you on Thursday.